# Client-Server-Development

- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  When creating programs I keep two thoughts in the forefront of my mind to help guide how my code can be maintainable, readable, and adaptable. The first thought revolves around imagining myself in someone else's shoes should they be working with my program without me there to explain the logic behind it and how it works. The second thought revolves around considering how versatile the program is in terms of future updates that could possibly involve new or removed functionalities, or even major modifications to support different data types or program usage. These two thoughts reinforce creating clear and concise comments that are substantial enough to thoroughly describe what my program is to do and how. The CRUD module I developed was made such that any program that interacts with it, such as Project One or Two .ipynb files, can login to a MongoDB database. The CRUD module has some preset connection settings that can be modified to allow for wider specificity in connection settings in different programs. The CRUD module shifted in how it functioned slightly throughout the course, with me performing assignment specific modifications which goes on to prove that the original code I created was maintainable, readable, and adaptable. This fact was shown by someone that was very new to the libraries I was working with and the syntax and methods of them as well. I could use this code in any situation utilizing PyMongo as a baseline CRUD module for interacting with MongoDB. Any unique functionalities would be easy to implement either into the module itself, or the files that utilize it.
  
- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

  I approach problems within the computer science world with a very inquisitive attitude. I make sure I fully understand what is being asked of me from a client and reference those needs often to ensure my work relates to client desires. When handed requirements to meet, I make sure I do thorough research of the programming language, included libraries, and other software related information that may be pertinent to the task at hand. Specifically with Grazioso Salvare, I had to do a lot of documentation reading for MongoDB, Jupyter Dash, and PyMongo. I had no prior experience with these assets and I needed to ensure I could find the information I needed about them to allow the plan I had for the program to come to fruition. I typically reference documentation when I find new methods that I feel could suit my needs or if I need to remember how to setup certain methods within my code. This project was different, however, in that I was utilizing multiple languages, that were tied together via the aforementioned assets, and a deeper understanding of all of them was required to get exactly what I needed out of my program. Going forward, I will be more efficient in program creation that utilizes more varied assets as I have this experience of doing just that under my belt. Even if it is not always easy to make complicated programs that connect many programming languages, I know the documentation is there to assist me in my endeavors.
  
- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

  A computer scientist is someone that ponders programming related questions and needs, and uses their knowledge, experience, and problem-solving skills to answer the questions and meet the needs of a client or clientele. Computer scientists fill the role of thinker, creator, tester, and many others, for software and environments of their specialty. Without computer scientists, there would be no logic being carried performing useful functions for users, therefore computers would not exist as they do to us today. Grazioso Salvare benefitted from my work as the program allows them to quickly access large amounts of data and sort through it to find animals they desire for their rescue animal needs. Without my program, the large dataset that held all of the information they needed filtered, sorted, and displayed, would have to be manually gone through. The difference in efficiency is dramatic. My program allows them to access 10000 animal's data and filter it for their specific needs and have it displayed to them on a website, with each user input responding in seconds. Manually filtering all animals would take hours by a single person. I gave them the ability to get their desired answers in seconds.
